.TH unalixc 1
.SH NAME
unalixc \- Remove tracking fields from URLs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unalixc
[options / URLs]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unalixc
is a command-line tool that can be used to remove tracking fields from URLs and optionally resolve shortened links.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "-u, --url <url>"
Specify a URL to remove tracking fields from.

This option can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BR --unshort
Unshort URLs.

This will send an HTTP request to all specified URLs and follow any 3xx redirects.
.TP
.BR "-l, --launch-with-browser"
Open URLs with user's default browser.

Under Windows, 
.I ShellExecute
is used. Under Mac OS X the 
.I open
command is used. Under Unix, it is checked if 
.I xdg-open
exists and used if it does. Otherwise the environment variable
.I BROWSER
is used to determine the default browser to use.
.TP
.BR --strict-errors
Fail and exit on the first detected error.

Only takes effect when used in combination with
.I --unshort
.
.SH URL filtering
All the options listed here directly changes the way Unalix behaves when processing the ClearURLs rules catalog.

Read the specification at
.I https://docs.clearurls.xyz/latest/specs/rules
for more info.
.TP
.BR --skip-blocked
Ignore patterns when
.I <completeProvider>
is true.
.TP
.BR --ignore-rules
Ignore
.I <rules>
patterns.
.TP
.BR --ignore-raw
Ignore
.I <rawRules>
patterns.
.TP
.BR --ignore-referral
Ignore
.I <referralMarketing>
patterns.
.TP
.BR --ignore-exceptions
Ignore
.I <exceptions>
patterns.
.TP
.BR --ignore-redirections
Ignore
.I <redirections>
patterns.
.SH HTTP settings
.TP
.BR "--timeout <seconds>"
Maximum time in seconds that you allow unalix's socket operations to take.
.TP
.BR "--max-redirs <num>"
Set maximum number of redirections to follow.
.TP
.BR "--user-agent <name>"
Specify the User-Agent string to send to the HTTP server.

Pass "none" to not send the header at all.
.SH DNS settings
.TP
.BR "--dns-server <uri>"
Set the DNS server to be used instead of the system default.

Unalix supports DoH, DoT and the plain text formats.

.BR Examples:
.nf
unalixc --dns-server=tls://one.one.one.one
unalixc --dns-server=https://cloudflare-dns.com/dns-query
unalixc --dns-server=udp://1.0.0.1  
unalixc --dns-server=tcp://1.0.0.1
.fi
.SH Proxy settings
.TP
.BR "--proxy <uri>"
Use the specified proxy.

Only SOCKS5 is supported for now.
.TP
.BR "--proxy-user <username>"
Specify the user name to use for proxy authentication.
.TP
.BR "--proxy-pass <password>"
Specify the password to use for proxy authentication.